---
title: "Does including the full CVLT-II and BVMT-R improve BICAMS? Evidence from a Belgian (Dutch) validation study."
collection: publications
permalink: /files/BICAMSpaper.pdf
excerpt: ''
date: 2017-11-01
venue: 'Multiple Sclerosis and Related Disorders'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S221103481730202X?via%3Dihub'
citation: 'Costers et al. (2017). &quot;Does including the full CVLT-II and BVMT-R improve BICAMS? Evidence from a Belgian (Dutch) validation study.&quot; <i> Multiple sclerosis and related disorders </i>. 18 (33-40).'
---

BACKGROUND:The Brief International Cognitive Assessment for Multiple Sclerosis (BICAMS) is a fast, easy-to-administer and already widely validated neuropsychological battery for cognition in multiple sclerosis. 

OBJECTIVE:
The goals of our study were to validate the BICAMS in a Belgian Dutch-speaking population and to investigate to what extent including extensive versions of two of the three BICAMS subtests improved its psychometric qualities. 

METHODS:
Ninety-seven persons with MS and ninety-seven healthy controls were included and group-matched on age, education level and gender. All participants performed the BICAMS with an extensive version of the CVLT-II and BVMT-R. 

RESULTS:
The SDMT and BVMT-R were able to dissociate between the MS and healthy control group, while the CVLT-II was not. Distributions of CVLT-II scores suggest learning effects in the MS group, indicating the need for alternative word lists or the construction of an adapted version fitted for repeated administration. Including the full CVLT-II and BVMT-R did not markedly improve the psychometric qualities of the BICAMS. 

CONCLUSION: This study validates the BICAMS in a Belgian Dutch-speaking population and facilitates the use of it in clinical practice, while providing evidence that including full versions of the CVLT-II and BVMT-R does not increase its psychometric qualities markedly.

Recommended citation: Costers, L., Gielen, J., Eelen, P. L., Van Schependom, J., Laton, J., Van Remoortel, A., ... & Nagels, G. (2017). Does including the full CVLT-II and BVMT-R improve BICAMS? Evidence from a Belgian (Dutch) validation study. Multiple sclerosis and related disorders, 18, 33-40.
